Introduce instruction for Elasticsearch and Outgoing Webhook development (#84)
infracloudio/botkube-docs: content/contribute/elasticsearch-develop.md

---
title: "ElasticSearch notifier development"
weight: 11
---

> To develop BotKube with Elasticsearch notifier enabled, install it locally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To develop BotKube with Elasticsearch notifier, follow these steps:
```
or 
```suggestion
The easiest way to develop BotKube with Elasticsearch notifier enabled is to install Elasticsearch on your local Kubernetes cluster.
```

in general, 
- it will be good to maintain the "header/overview" and "steps" sections or  change it but in all docs.
- IMO it doesn't read nice one after another,  "(..)  install it locally:", "1. Install Elasticsearch"

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Steps

```

To be consistent with the already existing doc: https://github.com/infracloudio/botkube-docs/blob/master/content/contribute/ms-teams-develop.md

1. Install Elasticsearch:

    ```bash

>     helm repo add elastic https://helm.elastic.co
>     helm install elasticsearch elastic/elasticsearch --set replicas=1 --set resources.requests.cpu="100m" --set resources.requests.memory="512M" --wait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    helm repo add elastic https://helm.elastic.co
    helm repo update elastic
    helm install elasticsearch elastic/elasticsearch --set replicas=1 --set resources.requests.cpu="100m" --set resources.requests.memory="512M" --wait
```

Author: I don't think that's needed if you add a new repo to Helm, but I agree that it might be handy to do update if someone already has this repo added 👍

Reviewer: yes, that's the purpose of it, and I saw that in all the official docs, it's looks like a good practice 👍 

Elastic also has that: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-install-helm.html

Author: I know that it's in the official docs, but still I didn't see that very often. For example in Argo: https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm/tree/main/charts/argo-cd#installing-the-chart or bitnami: https://github.com/bitnami/charts - but anyway, as `helm repo add` exits with 0 if a given repo is already added to local config, it totally makes sense to have it to make sure it works even if repo is added 👍

    ```

1. Install BotKube with Elasticsearch, according to the [Elasticsearch installation](/installation/elasticsearch) instruction, where:

    - `ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME` is `elastic`,
    - `ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD` is `changeme`,
    - `ELASTICSEARCH_ADDRESS` is `http://elasticsearch-master.default:9200`.

    You don't need to set index name, type, shards and replicas.

To review if the events are properly saved in Elasticsearch, follow these steps:

1. Do port forward:

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward svc/elasticsearch-master 9200
    ```

1. Fetch Elasticsearch indices:

    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:9200/_cat/indices
    ```

> 1. Copy the index name with the `botkube-` prefix and export it as environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the index name with the `botkube-` prefix and export it as environment variable. For example:
```

    ```bash

>     INDEX_NAME="botkube-2022-06-06"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    export INDEX_NAME="botkube-2022-06-06"
```
right?
